The intended purose of this board is to allow the user to test or practive digital audio processing methods on the device of their choice.  This board handles the audio input and output.  SPDIF was selected specifically because it's an I/O protocol that's very common in digital audio devices and converters.  In a use case example, the user can connect the SPDIF output of a regular USB audio interface connected to their computer.  This output from the computer could be supplied by a regular audio player or some sort of DAW playing a signal of their choice.  The user can break out the I2S signal to a DSP module of their choice, such as a DSP Audio processor chip, an FPGA, or a standard MCU configured to accept I2S.  The same processing unit would then output the processed signal via the i2S bus back to this SPDIF board through J5 which feeds the DIT4192 allowing the user to connect the output back into the computer's audio interface via the SPDIF input allowing them to monitor the signal leaving the computer and returning to the computer at the same time and in real-time.

This is a breakout board that accepts SPDIF in using the CS8416 and outputs an I2S stream complete with the data clocks and MCLK.  The middle of the board has a pair of standard 2x8 (100 mil pitch) headers.  One allows the I2C bus to be broken out to an external device.  The other allows the I2C bus to be returned to the board and fed into the DIT4192 SPDIF transceiver, which in this casae is used as a transmitter.  The header sending and receiving the I2S signals use a 3.3V logic level.  They also break out a regulated 3.3V Vcc and power ground to apply power to external devices.  

The power source at the J3 barrel connector should be about 9VDC.  It can be below that level and still operate without issue, although I don't recommend lower than about 6VDC.  The circuit can tolerate higher voltages as well but that should be avoided as it would increase the thermal load of the four 3.3V regulators (U6, U7, U11, U13).   

The board has a built in low jitter oscillator (X1) circuit that generates a 24.576MHz MCLK at a 3.3V logic level.  To send the MCLK signal out through J5, the jumper at J7 allows the user to select the MCLK source as eithe the onboard oscillator circuit or the recovered MCLK signal that the CS8416 recovers from the incoming SPDIF signal.  The user would simply place the jumper either on the XTAL side or the RMCLK side.  U2, the DIT4192 SPDIF transmitter is only allowed to use the onboard oascillator.  This allows the possibility of using only the transmitter without configuring the receiver.  

In addition to being able to use the generated MCLK signal from the headers, the onboard oscillator's MCLK signal is also individually buffered and fed to two SMA connectors, J2 and J9.  Being individually buffered, these outputs are better suited for longer or less ideal MCLK transfers.

The AES input is actively buffered with a high speed comparator using an averaging circuit to cancel the offset allowing the input of a wider range of SPDIF signal amplitudes.  The AES input terminates at about 80Ω.  If the termination is an issue, the user can remove R58 on the bottom side of the board.  

The AES output is isolated using the DIT4192 to drive the output through a digital audio transformer.  The output of the transformer is AC coupled to avoide excessive DC loading since the SPDIF signal is single ended.  The source impedance of the AES output is about 10Ω.

DIP Switches SW3, SW4, and SW5 manage the settings of the DIT4192 SPDIF transmitter, which is operating in a standalone, pin controlled mode so no MCU interfacing is needed.  The CS8416 is also set to operate in a standalone mode.  It simply doesn't require the same configuration as it accepts most of it's configuration parameters from the incoming SPDIF signal.  That said, the seven LEDs (D4 through D10) closer to the CS8416 half of the board are status bits for the individual settings of the CS8416.  This is more as a representation of the state of the CS8416 and can be used to verify the operation if the user knows the specific SPDIF stream user and configuration bits.  These indicators are alos broken out using J6 in case the user needs to actively track the status of the CS8416 with an external device.

SW1 and SW2 are reset switches for the DIT4192 and CS8416 respectively.  They're more often than not used to clear any error states that might occur or to force the device to reconfigure when any settings are changed.  This header also includes the BLS pin of the DIT4192 and a breakout of a 3.3VDC Vcc supply and ground.

Both devices are set by default to a 24bit, I2S compatible data stream but the actual data transmission is a 32 bit per subframe format or 64bit frames.  This sets the BCLK frequency so, for example, a 48KHz I2S stream eaving or entering this device will have a 48KHz WCLK clock signal, a 24.576MHz MCLK clock signal, and a 3.072MHz BCLK clock signal.  The WCLK frequency is the Frame clock and is the same as the sample rate.  MCLK is constant at 24.576MHz.  The BCLK frequency is 64 (two channels at 32 bit subframes) multiplied by the sample rate.  
